Robo-advisor doesn't
just pick a portfolio,
it picks the portfolio for you.
It takes information
that you provide
and turns it into
the right portfolio for you.
Okay. We talked earlier about
risk aversion and ways that
you can measure risk aversion.
You don't just have
to ask somebody,
"Well, how risk averse are you?"
You can ask them very targeted
questions that bring out
their risk aversion in
a way that's going to be
quantifiable and useful to you.
Okay. So that's one thing.
But another thing that's
probably going to be
the most key
customizations they do,
is going to be targeting,
so where you are
on the life cycle.
Where are you now
relative to when you
picture yourself retiring?
Okay. So that's
going to be one of
the most important
customizations that they can do.
There's going to be other things
too we can talk about,
but this is going to be key here.
Okay. Now, if you think about it,
there's going to
be a real pattern
that you would expect in
life cycle investing.
Okay. These are the pattern
you would expect,
and this has been how
people thought about
life cycle investing forever
as long as people have been
saving for retirement,
which is that more risk
is more appropriate
when you're younger.
When your investment
horizon is far off,
it's more appropriate to think
about taking a lot of risk
than when
your investment horizon
is starting to approach,
as retirement is starting
to be around the corner.
So if you go back to
like the '50s or '60s,
if you were going to
a financial advisor back then,
there's a rule of thumb
that they love back then,
and this was a standard thing
they would say, "Well, look,
you need to be adjusting
your risk to where you are
relative to retirement.
The rule was always,
let's take your age in years,
subtract that from 100
and the result is going to be how
much we put in equities.
So if you're 20,
then we'll put
80 percent in equities.
But once you're 60,
it's only going to be
40 percent in equities.
So just generally speaking,
we are going to be taking down
your equity exposure over
your life along that line."
That was just a rule of
thumb that people like
to follow back then.
This is still pretty
much the conventional wisdom
that people follow,
that over time, if you're
investing for the long horizon,
then you think "Well,
I can put money in
something risky.
Yes. It's risky. It's
going to go up and down,
but over a long horizon,
I should expect the ups
and downs to wash out."
Okay. Now, I don't want
to suggest to you that
you can count on that.
If you think about
the defined benefit plans,
we are talking about at
the top of this module,
there's a lot of expectation
there of risks evening
out over time,
and it didn't quite
work out that way.
They didn't even out nearly
as much as they'd hoped.
So I don't want to
raise people's hopes
too much that you
can count on that,
but it's certainly more
reliable at a longer horizon
than a shorter one.
Okay. So in that long horizon,
you ramp up the risk.
As the horizon
shortens, you lower it.
Okay. So this leads me to
a product these days that
it's not robo-advising,
but it's very popular and it
gives you a sense of what
robo-advisors are doing.
That is target date funds.
Okay. Target date
funds are by far
the most popular choice
these days for
retirement savings.
Okay. This is the basic idea
the target date fund,
what are they doing?
They're doing essentially
what I just said.
So when you walk into
your job and they hand you,
they send you to
the website saying,
"Okay, here are the choices.
Click on these things,
and click on the funds that
you like and tell me
what percentage you want and
which fund and that's where
your money is going to
go once we start taking
out of your paycheck."
The overwhelming
choice these days
is the employee will say,
"Okay, about when am
I going to retire?"
If I'm right now starting
a job, right now,
I might think, "I'm
probably going to
retire something like 2065."
All right. Something like that.
So I would look and I say,
"There is a 2065
target date fund."
Okay. I'll just go with that,
2065 target date fund.
Just send all my money to
the 2065 target date
fund, and that's it.
That is a very,
very popular choice these days.
Just one and done.
I just pick the 2065
fund and I'm all done.
Now, what's going to happen
now that I chose that?
Well, that fund is going to
execute that life cycle
tilting that I just described.
When you're way off from
retirement as you are now,
it's going to put
you heavily into
equities and a little
bit into bonds.
Okay. Then over time,
it's just going to follow a rule
by which equity
investment goes down,
bond investment goes up.
Okay. Now, bear in mind,
and we say target date,
some people have gotten
confused with these funds.
They think they hear
target and they
think there's a target
amount at the end.
If I invest in this,
I'm going to have enough money
to retire in 2065.
That's not quite
what they're saying.
They're targeting that date,
they're following
a rebalancing rule
that targets that date of 2065.
But how much are you're
going to have then?
That's really going to depend on
what happens with the market.
This confusion was a big deal
back during the financial crisis.
If you think about
in 2008 or 2009,
market went way down and whatever
your target date fund had
in equities at that time,
well, they were exposed
to that return.
If you were sitting
and thinking that
there's a definite
amount of money
that you're going to
get at retirement and
now you see your bounce
go way down,
well, know there's not
a definite amount of money.
They're following a rule,
that rule is keyed
to your life cycle,
but the market is still
going to do what it does,
and you're still going to
be exposed to the risk.
Okay. So to illustrate this,
let me show you some numbers that
I pulled off of
Vanguard's website.
Okay. What I did was,
they have a disclosure,
which shows all of
their target date funds,
and they show for each target
date fund how they have
allocated the assets
of that fund.
As you see on this screen here,
you have target date
funds for 2065.
That's the furthest out date
that you can get targeted
fund for and then 20,
then it's set every five years.
So 2060, 2045, and so on,
all the way down to 2015,
which would be people who are
just about to retire or
something like that.
At this point, people who
thought they were
going to retire in
2015 back when they invested
in the fund earlier.
Then they also have a fund
I've put at the very end here,
which is the fund they have for
people who are currently retired.
Okay. So I've lined them all
up and color-coded them,
so you can see
the tilting of the assets
that I'm talking about.
So in this chart here,
you see the dark
blue at the bottom,
that's their allocation to
the valuated US equity portfolio.
The orange is their allocation to
evaluated international
equity portfolio.
Okay. So the blue plus
the orange is essentially
Vanguard's view of
the world market portfolio.
You can see that if you're
invested 2065 funds.
So your means you're
really young person,
you're just starting your job,
you're like 90 percent
percent in equities,
and a little bit that 10
percent there in bonds.
You see it basically
stays there for
a while until you get to 2040.
So about 25 years later,
it starts to taper you
off of the equities that
goes down every EC,
every time as you go from
one fund to the next,
representing people
who are closer
and closer to retirement.
As you go left to right here,
you see that the allocation to
that equity market portfolio
is going down,
starts at 90, ends up
all the way at 30.
So those even in retirement,
they still got you in the
market a little bit there.
Even in retirement, you're
still in the market sum,
but you're deeply into
the fixed income,
the bond portion, which is
the gray and the yellow.
The light blue at the top
is basically cache.
So you can see that life cycle
investing there.
So there is a very simple
example of customizing
your portfolio allocation to
where you are in the life cycle.
Let me point out
one more thing, which is that,
what's Vanguard doing as they
about efficient portfolios here,
you're seeing that easy approach
they mentioned before.
Remember I said,
the easiest way to think about
mean-variance efficient
portfolios is
that the market portfolio
of evaluated index of
everything is more or
less an efficient portfolio,
and then you lever up and down
your investment in
that market portfolio.
Well, that's what
Vanguard is doing.
If you look at that graph,
that's exactly what
Vanguard is doing.
Basically, this 60-40 mix of
domestic versus
international stocks
is the market portfolio.
All they're doing
over time is just,
you're investing more or less
in that market portfolio,
and then putting the rest
essentially in something
like other risk-free rate or
any case the bond return.
So that is the essence
of robo-advising.
They are a customized portfolio
that is taken to account,
just one key factor,
which is how close are you to
retirement and coming up with
a customized retirement plan
on that basis.